Add preflight checks for Node apps (#118)
Automattic/vip-go-node: preflight-checks/README.md

# VIP Go - Preflight Checks for Node Apps

> This package runs preflight checks on your repo

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This package runs preflight checks on your Node application to make sure it's ready for VIP Go.
```

## Usage

In the root of your repo, run:

```
npx @automattic/vip-go-preflight-checks
```

## Steps

### 1. `npm` scripts

> In VIP Go, every time you push a new change, we run the following commands: `npm install`, `npm run build`, and `npm start`. This step checks that your `package.json` have these commands in order to build and start your application correctly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This step checks that your `package.json` has these commands configured and can build and start your application correctly.

On VIP Go, every time you push a new change to your application, we `git pull` the latest code and then run the following commands:

- `npm install --production`;
- `npm run build`; and
- `npm start`.

If any of these commands are missing or fail, the application may not work correctly.
```

**Note:** Some packages like `create-react-app` use `npm start` to start a dev server and `npm serve` to start a production server. You'll get a warning if we detect a `serve` script in your `package.json`.

### 2. `@automattic/vip-go` package usage

> Our helper libraries living in [`@automattic/vip-go`](https://github.com/Automattic/vip-go-node) will help you integrate easily with VIP Go. Especially the `server` helper which exposes some critical routes used internally for health checking. This step checks `@automattic/vip-go` is used in your production dependencies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This step checks that the `@automattic/vip-go` package is used in your production `dependencies`.

Our helper package ([`@automattic/vip-go`](https://github.com/Automattic/vip-go-node)) simplifies some of the boilerplate (e.g. the `server` helper automatically handles the route used internally for health checks) and makes it easier to integrate with platform features like logging.
```

### 3. Checking `PORT` and `/cache-healthcheck?` route

> In VIP Go, the `PORT` in which your application will start isn't fixed and shouldn't be hardcoded. Instead, we pass an environment variable called `PORT` to your application to indicate in which port it should start. This step install dependencies, build your app, and start it on a random `PORT`. It also checks the `/cache-healthcheck?` route we use internally for health checking, and verify it responding with a `200` HTTP status code. If you're using the `@automattic/vip-go` this is added automatically for you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This step verifies that your application boots up correctly and responds to the appropriate HTTP requests.

On VIP Go, the port used by your application is dynamic and shouldn't be hardcoded. We pass it in via an environment variable called `PORT`. This step install dependencies, build your app, and starts on a random `PORT`. It also checks the `/cache-healthcheck?` route we use internally for health checking, and verifies that it responds  with a `200` HTTP status code.

If you're using the `@automattic/vip-go` this is added automatically for you.
```
